New format for reference and value semantics (#863)
KhronosGroup/SYCL-Docs: adoc/chapters/programming_interface.adoc

  [code]#T# that is specified as performed on destruction is only performed if
  this instance is the last remaining host copy, in accordance with the above
  definition of a copy.
* _Movability:_ [code]#T# must be move constructible and move assignable in the
  host application.
  If [code]#T# is a valid kernel argument, [code]#T# must also be move
  constructible and move assignable within SYCL kernel functions.
  Any instance of [code]#T# that is the result of a move from another instance
  must behave as-if it were the original instance and must represent the same
  underlying <<native-backend-object>>, where applicable.
  Move construction and move assignment render the moved-from instance of
  [code]#T# invalid.
* _Equality:_ [code]#T# must be equality comparable in the host application.
  Equality between two instances of [code]#T# (i.e., [code]#a == b#) must be
  true if one instance is a copy of the other, and non-equality between two
  instances of [code]#T# (i.e., [code]#a != b#) must be true if neither instance
  is a copy of the other, in accordance with the above definition of a copy.
  An instance of [code]#T# that has been invalidated by a move operation is not

>   considered to be a copy of any other [code]#T# instance.

Author: The text originally said,

> unless either instance has become invalidated by a move operation

which I couldn't parse in context. I *think* the sentence I've added here captures the intent.

  If [code]#T# is a valid kernel argument, [code]#T# must also be destructible
  within SYCL kernel functions.
  When an instance of [code]#T# is destroyed, any copies of the [code]#T#
  instance (as defined above) are unaffected.
  When the last remaining host copy of an instance of [code]#T# is destroyed,
  lifetime-related operations may be performed on the underlying
  implementation-defined resource, including, where applicable, the destruction
  of a <<native-backend-object>>.

* _Movability:_ [code]#T# must be move constructible and move assignable in the
  host application.
  If [code]#T# is a valid kernel argument, [code]#T# must also be move
  constructible and move assignable within SYCL kernel functions.
  Any instance of [code]#T# that is the result of a move from another instance
  must behave as-if it were the original instance and must represent the same
  underlying <<native-backend-object>>, where applicable.
  Move construction and move assignment render the moved-from instance of
  [code]#T# invalid.

* _Equality:_ [code]#T# must be equality comparable in the host application.
  If [code]#T# is a valid kernel argument, [code]#T# must also be equality

>   comparablewithin SYCL kernel functions.

Author: You're right. It might be copy-pasta.

Removed in 7d8e673

  Equality between two instances of [code]#T# (i.e., [code]#a == b#) must be
  true if one instance is a copy of the other, and non-equality between two
  instances of [code]#T# (i.e., [code]#a != b#) must be true if neither instance
  is a copy of the other, in accordance with the above definition of a copy.
  An instance of [code]#T# that has been invalidated by a move operation is not
  considered to be a copy of any other [code]#T# instance.
  Equality on [code]#T# must be guaranteed to be reflexive (i.e., [code]#a ==
  a#), symmetric (i.e., [code]#a == b# implies [code]#b == a# and [code]#a != b#
  implies [code]#b != a#), and transitive (i.e., [code]#a == b && b == c#
  implies [code]#c == a#).

* _Hashability:_ A specialization of [code]#std::hash# for [code]#T# must exist
  in the host application.
  The specialization of [code]#std::hash# must return a unique value such that
  for two instances of [code]#T#, [code]#a# and [code]#b#, either [code]#(a ==
  b) && std::hash(a) == std::hash(b)# evaluates to true, or [code]#(a != b) &&

>   std::hash(a) != std::hash(b)# evaluates to true.

Author: The text didn't originally say that `operator==()` and `hash()` are available on device. Should we add those?

[[sec:reference-semantics]]
=== Common reference semantics

Some <<sycl-runtime>> classes provide <<reference-semantics>>.
Each of these classes must provide a common interface of special member
functions in order to fulfill copy, move, and destruction requirements and
hidden friend functions in order to fulfill equality requirements, as described
below.

Some classes providing <<reference-semantics>> have additional behavior
associated with copy, movement, assignment, or destruction semantics.
If these are specified, they are in addition to <<reference-semantics>>, unless
stated otherwise.

The following <<sycl-runtime>> classes provide <<reference-semantics>>:
[code]#accessor#, [code]#buffer#, [code]#context#, [code]#device#,
[code]#device_image#, [code]#event#, [code]#host_accessor#,
[code]#host_sampled_image_accessor#, [code]#host_unsampled_image_accessor#,
[code]#kernel#, [code]#kernel_id#, [code]#kernel_bundle#,
[code]#local_accessor#, [code]#platform#, [code]#queue#, [code]#sampled_image#,
[code]#sampled_image_accessor#, [code]#stream#, [code]#unsampled_image#, and

> [code]#unsampled_image_accessor#.

Author: Done in 8692759

I've gone ahead and used the `[api]` tag to turn these into links. I expect some of the anchor names will be changed as those sections get the new format, but it's a starting point.

[[sec:reference-semantics-reqs]]

> ==== Requirements

Author: I've gone with *Interface requirements*. We tend to use *interface* when we have an API synopsis, which isn't quite what this section is. Other words that came to mind, like *concepts* and *traits*, also clash with other uses of those words.

Each <<sycl-runtime>> class that provides <<reference-semantics>> must conform
to the following requirements, where [code]#T# is the runtime class type:

* _Copyability:_ [code]#T# must be copy constructible and copy assignable in the
  host application and within SYCL kernel functions in the case that [code]#T#

>   is a valid kernel argument.

Author: Agreed. It was possible to misinterpret the original text.

Done in 8692759

  Any instance of [code]#T# that is constructed as a copy of another instance,
  via either the copy constructor or copy assignment operator, must behave as-if
  it were the original instance and as-if any action performed on it were also
  performed on the original instance and must represent the same underlying

>   <<native-backend-object>> as the original instance where applicable.

Author: Done in 8692759

* _Destructibility:_ [code]#T# must be destructible in the host application and
  within SYCL kernel functions in the case that [code]#T# is a valid kernel
  argument.
  When any instance of [code]#T# is destroyed, including as a result of the copy

>   assignment operator, any behavior specific to [code]#T# that is specified as

Author: Done in 8692759

  performed on destruction is only performed if this instance is the last
  remaining host copy, in accordance with the above definition of a copy.
* _Movability:_ [code]#T# must be move constructible and move assignable in the
  host application and within SYCL kernel functions in the case that [code]#T#
  is a valid kernel argument.
  Any instance of [code]#T# that is constructed as a move of another instance,
  via either the move constructor or move assignment operator, must replace the
  original instance rendering said instance invalid and must represent the same
  underlying <<native-backend-object>> as the original instance where

>   applicable.

Author: I've rephrased this to try to also capture that objects that have been move-assigned to haven't been constructed by that assignment.

* _Equality:_ [code]#T# must be equality comparable in the host application.
  Equality between two instances of [code]#T# (i.e. [code]#a == b#) must be true
  if one instance is a copy of the other and non-equality between two instances
  of [code]#T# (i.e. [code]#a != b#) must be true if neither instance is a copy
  of the other, in accordance with the above definition of a copy, unless either
  instance has become invalidated by a move operation.
  By extension of the requirements above, equality on [code]#T# must guarantee
  to be reflexive (i.e. [code]#a == a#), symmetric (i.e. [code]#a == b# implies
  [code]#b == a# and [code]#a != b# implies [code]#b != a#) and transitive (i.e.
  [code]#a == b && b == c# implies [code]#c == a#).

> * _[code]#std::hash# specialization:_ A specialization of [code]#std::hash# for

Author: I've changed it to `Hashability`, but I'm also unsure. I couldn't think of anything better. If we had C++20, we could express all of these as Concepts, I think.

  [code]#T# must exist in the host application that returns a unique value such
  that if two instances of [code]#T# are equal, in accordance with the above
  definition, then their resulting hash values are also equal and subsequently
  if two hash values are not equal, then their corresponding instances are also

>   not equal, in accordance with the above definition.

Author: I've sort-of done what you suggested, but I broke up the inline code a bit more.

I'm wondering, though, if we should be referring to the [`Hash` named requirement](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/named_req/Hash.html) instead. It would make things easier for us. More importantly, the `Hash` named requirement allows for a low rate of collisions, whereas our wording implies a collision-free hash function.

Maybe @nliber has thoughts?

>   not equal, in accordance with the above definition.

Reviewer: I'm not 100% sure because I've not seen this named requirement before, but it says it applies to function objects.  I think `std::hash<T>` is what would satisfy `Hash` here, rather than `T`.

The wording in [unord.hash](https://eel.is/c++draft/unord.hash#:hash,instantiation_restrictions) might be easier to align with.  It looks like we could say something like:
> An enabled specialization `std::hash<T>` must exist in the host application.

Because an "enabled specialization" is defined in [paragraph 5](https://eel.is/c++draft/unord.hash#5):

> An enabled specialization hash<Key> will:
> - [(5.1)](https://eel.is/c++draft/unord.hash#5.1) meet the [Cpp17Hash](https://eel.is/c++draft/hash.requirements#:Cpp17Hash) requirements (Table [37](https://eel.is/c++draft/hash.requirements#tab:cpp17.hash)), with Key as the function call argument type, the [Cpp17DefaultConstructible](https://eel.is/c++draft/utility.arg.requirements#:Cpp17DefaultConstructible) requirements (Table [30](https://eel.is/c++draft/utility.arg.requirements#tab:cpp17.defaultconstructible)), the [Cpp17CopyAssignable](https://eel.is/c++draft/utility.arg.requirements#:Cpp17CopyAssignable) requirements (Table [34](https://eel.is/c++draft/utility.arg.requirements#tab:cpp17.copyassignable)), the [Cpp17Swappable](https://eel.is/c++draft/swappable.requirements#:Cpp17Swappable) requirements ([[swappable.requirements]](https://eel.is/c++draft/swappable.requirements)),
> - [(5.2)](https://eel.is/c++draft/unord.hash#5.2) meet the requirement that if k1 == k2 is true, h(k1) == h(k2) is also true, where h is an object of type hash<Key> and k1 and k2 are objects of type Key;
> - [(5.3)](https://eel.is/c++draft/unord.hash#5.3) meet the requirement that the expression h(k), where h is an object of type hash<Key> and k is an object of type Key, shall not throw an exception unless hash<Key> is a program-defined specialization[.](https://eel.is/c++draft/unord.hash#5.sentence-1)

...but I defer to @nliber!

Hidden friend functions have the benefits of avoiding accidental implicit
conversions and faster compilation.

[source,,linenums]
----
include::{header_dir}/common-reference.h[lines=4..-1]
----

[[sec:reference-semantics-special-members]]
==== Special member functions

This section describes the special member functions that must be provided by all

> classes providing the common reference semantics (see also the

Author: Yeah, there are definitely a lot of missing commas in the spec. d5ed573 has improved that for the reference semantics section.

The phrasing here is difficult for two reasons:

1. *Reference semantics* means lots of different things in the field of programming languages. `sycl::id&` has reference semantics, but not SYCL common reference semantics. ATM, the only way the spec has to indicate that it's referring to a specific, definite instance of reference semantics rather than reference semantics in general is with the definite article, which is grammatically correct, but unhelpfully subtle. Barring something better, I do think the *the* is always necessary.
2. The *semantics* in *reference semantics* is acting as an uncountable (indefinite) plural, while the *semantics* in *SYCL common reference semantics* is acting as a singular.

I think *SYCL common reference semantics* is the best way to be intelligible, unambiguous, and grammatically correct. I've added a glossary definition and links in the reference semantics section in 2d36459. I'm happy to iterate on this.

(Whether it's better to say *SYCL common reference semantics* or *the SYCL common reference semantics* is a question I'm hoping to avoid.)

.[apititle]#Destructor#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:reference-semantics-destructor]
----
~T()
----

_Effects:_ Destroys this [code]#T# instance in accordance with the requirements
set out above.

_Remarks:_ On destruction of the last copy, may perform additional
lifetime-related operations required for the underlying
<<native-backend-object>> specified in the <<backend>> specification document,
if this [code]#T# instance was originally constructed using one of the backend
interoperability [code]#make_*# functions specified in
<<sec:backend-interoperability-make>>.
See the relevant backend specification for details.

'''

[[sec:reference-semantics-hidden-friends]]
==== Hidden friend functions

This section describes the hidden friend functions that must be provided by all
classes providing the common reference semantics.
Each of these classes may provide further member functions, static member
functions, etc., as documented in their respective sections.

'''

.[apititle]#Equality operator#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:reference-semantics-equality]
----
bool operator==(const T& lhs, const T& rhs)
----

_Effects:_ Returns true if [code]#lhs# is equal to [code]#rhs# in accordance

> with the requirements set out above, otherwise returns false.

Reviewer: Again, I think we could pull the equality definition down to here.

'''

.[apititle]#Inequality operator#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:reference-semantics-inequality]
----
bool operator!=(const T& lhs, const T& rhs)
----

> _Effects:_ Returns true if [code]#lhs# is not equal to [code]#rhs# in accordance
> with the requirements set out above, otherwise returns false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Effects:_ Equivalent to [code]#return not (lhs == rhs);#.
```

This would prevent us from having to duplicate the wording about equality, if we make that change.

----
bool operator!=(const T& lhs, const T& rhs)
----

> _Effects:_ Equivalent to [code]#!(lhs == rhs)#.

Author: Fixed in 8692759

> _Remarks:_ Conforms to the equality comparability requirements

Author: Fixed in 8692759

move, destruction and equality requirements, following the <<rule-of-five>> and
the <<rule-of-zero>>.

[source,,linenums]
----
include::{header_dir}/common-byval.h[lines=4..-1]
----

[[sec:value-semantics-special-members]]
==== Special member functions

This section describes the special member functions that may be provided by
classes providing the common by-value semantics.
If a class provides any one of these special member functions, all of the
special member functions must be provided (see also the <<rule-of-five>> and the
<<rule-of-zero>>).
Each of these classes may provide further member functions, static member
functions, etc., as documented in their respective sections.

'''

.[apititle]#Copy constructor#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:value-semantics-ctor-copy]
----
T(const T& rhs)
----

_Effects:_ Constructs a [code]#T# instance as a copy of [code]#rhs#.

'''

.[apititle]#Move constructor#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:value-semantics-ctor-move]
----
T(T&& rhs)
----

> _Effects:_ Constructs a [code]#T# instance as a move of [code]#rhs#.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Effects:_ Constructs a [code]#T# instance via a move from [code]#rhs#.
```

'''

.[apititle]#Copy assignment operator#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:value-semantics-assignment-copy]
----
T& operator=(const T& rhs)
----

_Effects:_ Assigns a copy of [code]#rhs# to this [code]#T# instance.

'''

.[apititle]#Move assignment operator#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:value-semantics-assignment-move]
----
T& operator=(T&& rhs)
----

_Effects:_ Moves from [code]#rhs# and assigns to this [code]#T# instance.

'''

.[apititle]#Destructor#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:value-semantics-destructor]
----
~T()
----

_Effects:_ Destroys this [code]#T# instance.

'''

[[sec:value-semantics-hidden-friends]]
==== Hidden friend functions

This section describes the hidden friend functions that must be provided by all
classes providing the common by-value semantics.
Each of these classes may provide further member functions, static member
functions, etc., as documented in their respective sections.

'''

.[apititle]#Equality operator#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:value-semantics-equality]
----
bool operator==(const T& lhs, const T& rhs)
----

_Effects:_ Returns true if [code]#lhs# is equal to [code]#rhs# in accordance

> with the requirements set out above, otherwise returns false.

Reviewer: Same comment as for reference semantics: I think we should declare the requirements here.

'''

.[apititle]#Inequality operator#
[source,role=synopsis,id=api:value-semantics-inequality]
----
bool operator!=(const T& lhs, const T& rhs)
----

> _Effects:_ Returns true if [code]#lhs# is not equal to [code]#rhs# in accordance
> with the requirements set out above, otherwise returns false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Effects:_ Equivalent to [code]#return not (lhs == rhs);#.
```
